# Part 1: Intro and Set up

### React Intro
React is a JavaScript library. Much like jQuery it is a single file, created and maintained by Facebook. It is component-based, which means that you can use Components to describe your desired outcome for very specific areas on the webpage. For instance, we might have a component for nav, footer, main, counter, etc. 

###Rationale
As of today React is one of the top 3 tools for using JavaScript on the front end. Because of its speed, quick learning curve, reusability of components, and performance, React is enormously popular.

Here are a few pros and cons of using React:

### Pros
- Uses JSX - JS that looks HTML.
- Works in tandem with vanilla JS.
- Reusable components.
- Has its own Dev Tools.
- React Native - native mobile development.
- Facebook supported.
- Fast rendering, includes a virtual DOM.
- Awesome SEO performance.
- Great debugging.
- Functional development friendly.

### Cons
- It only deals with the view (can be a pro).
- Have to use things like webpack, etc. for easy development.
- Can be difficult to get your brain initially into react mode.
- Lots of third party packages to make your life easier are needed.
- Facebook supported. More on this in class. 

# Project Overview: Fundamental React Concepts

Some of the great things we'll study in this part include the following:

- **Components**: This is one of the best parts about React. Everything is broken up into separate reusable components. This makes app flow and debugging a whole lot easier!

- **JavaScript**: One of the great things about React is that you can use it in tandem with vanilla JavaScript. So be ready to sharpen your skills with plain old-fashioned JavaScript here.

- **JSX**: JSX is a syntax used in React components that looks very similar to HTML. If you know HTML, you can write a React component in a relatively short amount of time.

- **Props**: Props are a nice way of passing data around the app and down through components. 

- **State**: You'll learn a lot about how the state of an application changes and how we can see state changes without having to rerender the entire DOM.

- **Lifecycle Methods**: There are lifecycle methods for components that allows you to run functions at certain times. For instance, if I need to fetch all my data before a page loads, I can run a method that fetches that data. 

