# Arrow Functions

Arrow functions are incredibly common in React. It's important for you to know how they work.  

Again, we recommend taking a [read](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions) through the documentation, if you haven't already. Some of the points below are cherry picked from there. Some points, like the 'this' keyword, we'll be discussing later.


### Arrow Syntax Answer 
Again, it is very common to see the Fat Arrow / Arrow Function syntax used with React, especially in Functional Components. The Fat Arrow provides a more terse and compact approach to writing a function, and React, while often verbose, strives to make things more compact. It's important to note that the Fat Arrow is part of ES6, plain old JS, which brings up a great point: You can (*and will*) often write plain JavaScript with React. 

So here is the answer to writing the Component in arrow syntax:

```js
import React from 'react';

const FunctionalComponentDemo = () => {
    return (
        <div className="main">
            <div className="mainDiv">
                <div>
                    Hello React
                </div>
                <div>
                    How are you today?
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
};

export default FunctionalComponentDemo;
```


### Answer discussion
If you don't understand what's going on, step away from your project for a second and have a look at this example. Just so you know, this is in vanilla JavaScript, not React specific:

Here's a regular JS function:

```js
var add = function(x, y){
    return x + y;
}
```

Here is that same function written with Arrow Syntax: 
```js
var add = (x, y) => x + y;
```

Notice in the above code, we don't have to use the 'return' keyword. It's implicitly added when there is a one line/expression in the body of the function. 

Let's see another example, same thing straight from the MDN docs.
```js
// concise body syntax, implied "return"
var func = x => x * x;                  

// with block body, explicit "return" needed
var func = (x, y) => { return x + y; }; 
```

Consider the following example where the first and second version of the function are the same.

```js
let greetUser = username => `Hello, ${username}!`;
let greetUserSecondVersion = username => { return `Hello ${username}!` };
console.log(greetUser('Kenn') === greetUserSecondVersion('Kenn')); // true
```

Here is a simple version that represents the syntax of our React Component.
```js
var function = () => {
    console.log("Hello React");
}
```

Make sense? If it doesn't, we recommend more practice. You can't read React without knowing this concept.

Let's go on to the next module.