#Functional Components
Hopefully, you noticed that we have separate files for Header, Footer, Sidebar, and Resources. These are all known as components in React.  Components are individual pieces of User Interface that can be altered independently of one another. 

There are two types of components: Functional Components and Class Components.  In this module we'll start by talking about and working with Functional Components.

### Functional Components
Functional components have the following capabiliities/traits:

* allow rendering of information without having to use or change state.
* known as presentational components.  
* Often used for simple chunks of code.
* No 'this' keyword. Class components use 'this' extensively.  
* Known as dumb components.
* Often used as child components that will receive 'props'(aka properties) from a Class Component(parent). 

### Directory Setup
In the components folder set up a concepts folder and a `FunctionalComponentDemo.js` file: 

```
    └── src
        └── assets
        └── components
         +      └── concepts
         +            └── FunctionalComponentDemo.js
                └── site
```

<bold>Style Rule:<bold> We follow Facebook's convention of using Pascal casing for component names, and we name files in the same manner.

### Functional Component Example

Let's create a simple functional component in the `FunctionalComponentDemo.js` file. At this point you probably want to start typing(instead of copying and pasting) so that you can get a good feel for the React keystrokes and syntax. Add the following:

```js
import React from 'react';

const FunctionalComponentDemo = function () {
    return (
        
    );
};

```

If you were to run the app at this point with `npm start`, you would receive an error. Why? Because a functional component is a function that should return something. Let's do that:

```js
import React from 'react';

const FunctionalComponentDemo = function () {
    return (
 +       <div>
 +           Hello React
 +       </div>
    );
};
```

Here we add a few lines we added while appearing to be a simple bit of HTML are actually something called JSX, which we'll talk about in a future module. For now, assume that it's working just like HTML.


```js
import React from 'react';

const FunctionalComponentDemo = function () {
    return (
 +       <div>
 +           Hello React
 +       </div>
    );
};

export default FunctionalComponentDemo;
```

Run the app? Does it work. It shouldn't have any change at this point. Why is this? Well, we need to call the component. Let's discuss that next.



