# Lifecycle Methods in React

The React development team provides a bunch of methods to interact with the lifestyle with. These let us utilize certain parts of the lifecycle, to develop more efficiently. Each of the life cycle methods are called in a specific order and at a specific time, and are tied to a part of the lifecycle. We'll go through each life cycle phase and the corresponding methods and things that happen in each phase.

### Mounting Phase
- Initialize / Construction
- `getDefaultProps()` (React.createClass) or MyComponent.defaultProps (ES6 class)
- `getInitialState()` (React.createClass) or this.state = ... (ES6 constructor)
- `componentWillMount()`
- `render()`
- Children initialization & life cycle kickoff
- `componentDidMount()`

### Update Phase
- `componentWillReceiveProps()`
- `shouldComponentUpdate()`
- `componentWillUpdate()`
- `render()`
- Children Life cycle methods
- `componentDidUpdate()`

### Death / Unmount
- `componentWillUnmount()`
- Children Life cycle methods
- Instance destroyed for Garbage Collection
- The order of these methods are strict and called as defined above. Most of the time is spent in the Growth/Update phase and those methods are called many times. The Birth and Death methods will only be called once.

These methods happen every time in the above order. Some of them are more commonly interacted with than others, so we'll continue to hone in on the ones that are most important when developing.

Note that the ones you will commonly use and see will be marked with a `*` by their names. 


[Mounting Methods](6.2-birth-methods.md)