# Mounting Overview

A React Component kicks off the life cycle during the initial application ex: ReactDOM.render(). With the initialization of the component instance, we start moving through the mounting phase of the life cycle. The biggest focus of the birth phase is the initial configuration for our Component instance. This is where we pass in the props that will define the instance. In the mounting phase, we configure the default state and get access to the initial UI display, this also starts the mounting process for children of the Component. 

While the entire process of mounting is definitely worth knowing, we're going to get you started on the methods that you'll use most often when writing React applications. 

## Common Methods

### ComponentWillMount() ***

The first thing that happens in the mounting phase is the initialization & construction of the component, where the props and initial state are intiliazed. After this happens, we can start to access `ComponentWillMount()` and other lifecycle methods. This method is called before `render()`.

The `componentWillMount()` method is a great spot to handle configuration, update our state, and in general prepare for the first render. At this point, props and initial state are defined. We can safely query this.props and this.state, knowing with certainty they are the current values. This means we can start performing calculations or processes based on the prop values. For example, if we need to perform a calculation based on information from the state or props, this is a great place to do it. See the below example for a calculation that would be appropriate to do in `componentWillMount()`

```js
import React, {Component} from 'react';

class Weather extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { weatherIcon: undefined } ;
  }

  componentWillMount() {
    let weatherIcon;
    switch (this.props.weatherDescription) {
        case 'Cloudy':
            weatherIcon = 'day-cloudy'
        case 'Sunny':
            weatherIcon = 'day-sunny'
        case 'Rain':
            weatherIcon = 'day-cloud-rain'
        case 'Snow':
            weatherIcon = 'day-snow'
        default:
            weatherIcon = 'day-partly-cloudy'
    }
        this.setState({ weatherIcon });
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
         <i className= { this.state.weatherIcon }) />
         <p>{ this.props.weatherDescription }</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

Weather.defaultProps = { weatherDescription: 'unknown' };

export default Weather;
```

In the above example, in our `ComponentWillMount()` we make a calculation to determine the appropriate weather icon, based on the prop weatherDescription. This is the best place to make such a calculation because we know we have our state and props ready to go, but our render hasn't been called yet, so we can set these calculations before render, so that they'll be rendered correctly. `ComponentWillMount()` is the best place to set state based on props. It's also a good place for global events, like connecting a store, or responding to resizing or focus changes. 


### Render() ***

The `render()` method starts in the mounting phase and continues to exist in the update phases. One important thing to note about the `render()` method is all it should be doing is rendering, do not have any calculations or anything in this method that will change the state or props. Do not call `setState()` in `render()`. Doing so will cause the render() method to trigger infinitely, as react re-renders on state change. Luckily, react is great about pointing problems like these out if you do uninentionally do this. 

### ComponentDidMount() ***

The last step in the Mount life cycle phase is our post-mount access via `componentDidMount()`. This method is called once all our children Elements and our Component instances are mounted onto the Native UI. Similar to `componentWillMount()`, `componentDidMount()` is only called one time. Unlike our other Mount methods, where we start at the top and work down, `componentDidMount()` works from the bottom up, starting from the children components and working upward. So by the time our parent component hits `componentDidMount()` we know that children components have all gone through it as well. 

Useful things to do in this lifecycle method include: 
- Making API Calls (this is common and important to remember)
- Initializing 3rd party libraries
- Setting up listeners/subscriptions


[Update Methods](6.3-update-methods.md)