# Update Phase

The update phase is where a Component spends most of its time. Here we get data updates, act on user or system actions, and provide the overall experience for our application. There are three ways to start update:
1. when the props change
2. when the state changes
3. by forcibly calling `forceUpdate()`. 

The changes that are made determine how the rest of the update phase is affected.

## Methods

### componentWillReceiveProps() ***
`componentWillReceiveProps()` is invoked before a mounted component receives new props. If you need to update the state in response to prop changes (for example, to reset it), you may compare this.props and nextProps and perform state transitions using `this.setState()` in this method. Note that React will call this method even if the props have not changed, so make sure to compare the current and next values if you only want to handle changes. This may occur when the parent component causes your component to re-render.

Note that: React doesn’t call componentWillReceiveProps() with initial props during mounting. It only calls this method if some of component’s props may update. Calling this.setState() generally doesn’t trigger componentWillReceiveProps().

What to use in this method:
- if you need to make calculations and changes to the state, when the props change (not in the mounting phase)
    - For example: in our previous weather example, if we based this off of input, and we wanted to make a change based on a parents component changing the props, we could use this method.

### shouldComponentUpdate()
Use `shouldComponentUpdate()` to let React know if it shouldn't re-render a component. The main purpose of using this method is to prevent unnecessary re-renders, when a component’s output is not affected by the current change in state or props. The default behavior is to re-render on every state change, and in the vast majority of cases you should rely on the default behavior. This method is **not often used**, unless you know for specific instances where you would not want a re-render on. 

Things to Note:
- Currently, if `shouldComponentUpdate()` returns false, then `componentWillUpdate()`, `render()`, and `componentDidUpdate()` will not be invoked. 
- React may treat `shouldComponentUpdate()` as a hint rather than a strict directive, and returning false may still result in a re-rendering of the component.
- Returning false does not prevent child components from re-rendering when their state changes.
- React does not recommend doing deep equality checks or using `JSON.stringify()` in `shouldComponentUpdate()`. It is very inefficient and will harm performance.

### componentWillUpdate()
`componentWillUpdate()` is invoked once React knows it needs to re-render a component, and immediately before rendering when new props or state are being received. This method is not called for the initial render. The `componentWillUpdate() `is a chance for us to handle configuration changes and prepare for the next render. If we want to access the old props or state, we can call this.props or this.state. We can then compare them to the new values and make changes/calculations as required.

Note that **you cannot call `this.setState()` here**; nor should you do anything else that would trigger an update to a React component before `componentWillUpdate()` returns.

If you need to update state in response to props changes, use `componentWillReceiveProps()` instead.

### componentDidUpdate()
`componentDidUpdate()` is invoked immediately after updating occurs. This method is not called for the initial render. The most common uses of `componentDidUpdate()` is managing 3rd party UI elements and interacting with the Native UI. When using 3rd Party libraries, like charts, we need to update the UI library with new data. This is also a good place to do network requests as long as you compare the current props to previous props (e.g. a network request may not be necessary if the props have not changed).

[Unmount Methods](6.4-unmount-methods.md)







