# 7.3: Update Methods

The update phase is where a Component spends most of its time. Here we get data updates, act on user or system actions, and provide the overall experience for our application. There are three ways to start update: 1. when the props change 2. when the state changes 3. by forcibly calling `forceUpdate()`.

The changes that are made determine how the rest of the update phase is affected.

## Methods

### componentWillReceiveProps\(\) _\*_

`componentWillReceiveProps()` is invoked before a mounted component receives new props. If you need to update the state in response to prop changes \(for example, to reset it\), you may compare this.props and nextProps and perform state transitions using `this.setState()` in this method. Note that React will call this method even if the props have not changed, so make sure to compare the current and next values if you only want to handle changes. This may occur when the parent component causes your component to re-render.

Note that: React doesn’t call componentWillReceiveProps\(\) with initial props during mounting. It only calls this method if some of component’s props may update. Calling this.setState\(\) generally doesn’t trigger componentWillReceiveProps\(\).

What to use in this method:

* if you need to make calculations and changes to the state, when the props change \(not in the mounting phase\)
  * For example: in our previous weather example, if we based this off of input, and we wanted to make a change based on a parents component changing the props, we could use this method.

### shouldComponentUpdate\(\)

Use `shouldComponentUpdate()` to let React know if it shouldn't re-render a component. The default behavior in React for rendering, is to re-render on every state change, and in the vast majority of cases you should rely on the default behavior. You can use this method to prevent unnecessary re-renders, when a component’s output is not affected by the current change in state or props. This method is **not often used**, unless you know for specific instances where you would not want a re-render on. React may treat `shouldComponentUpdate()` as a hint rather than a strict directive, and returning false may still result in a re-rendering of the component.

### componentWillUpdate\(\)

`componentWillUpdate()` is invoked once React knows it needs to re-render a component, and immediately before rendering. This method is not called for the initial render. The `componentWillUpdate()`is a chance for us to handle configuration changes and prepare for the next render, we can access the old state and props here, right before they change using this.state and this.props.

Note that **you cannot call** `this.setState()` **here**; nor should you do anything else that would trigger an update to a React component before `componentWillUpdate()` returns.

If you need to update state in response to props changes, use `componentWillReceiveProps()` instead.

### componentDidUpdate\(\)

`componentDidUpdate()` is invoked immediately after updating occurs, think of it as similar to `componentDidMount()`, but for the update phase. This method is not called for the initial render. The most common uses of `componentDidUpdate()` is managing 3rd party libraries to update the information, or doing network requests as long as you compare the current props to previous props to determine if it's necessary to do one.

[Unmount Methods](7.4-unmount-methods.md)

