# Codepen

We have a collection of data that is a group of creature codepens. At this point we can go looking for a package that would allow us to embed a Codepen example in our React components. We did find a package, `react-codepen`, but it was outdated. So we updated it. Just so you know, that's part of the adventure.

In the concepts directoy, add a file called `Codepen.js`. Inside the file add the following code:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';

class Codepen extends Component{

  render () {
    //1
    const src  = `//codepen.io/${this.props.user}/embed/${this.props.hash}/?height=${this.props.height}&theme-id=${this.props.theme}&default-tab=${this.props.tab}`;
    const user = `http://codepen.io/${this.props.user}`;
    const pen  = `${user}/pen/${this.props.hash}/`;

    return (
      //2
      <iframe title="Codepen Project" width={this.props.width} height={this.props.height} scrolling="no" src={src} frameBorder="no" allowFullScreen="true" style={{height: this.props.height, width: this.props.width}}>
        <a href={pen}>See this pen</a> by {this.props.user} (<a href={user}>@{this.props.user}</a>) on <a href='http://codepen.io'>CodePen</a>.
      </iframe>
    );
  }
};

export default Codepen;
```

If you've understood everything until now, and feel lost, don't be. Tthe `Codepen.js` code you have here is only slightly above your skill level at this point. It is doing the same thing we've just been doing. Break it down in big picture chunks:

In #1, we are setting up variables for the url for codepen for the specific user and the specific hash number of the pen. 

In #2, we return an `iframe` out of the component that will allow us to pass in props to be rendered.

We don't want to short change you on explanation, but we think that if you dug in and read through that code, you could understand it in just a few minutes. Such an exercise is very good for you, too. If you're lost, know for now that this Component is going to allow us to embed Codepen projects into our project.

At times, it's ok to break code down in this big picture way. Chuck the code into digestible sets. 

### Using the Codepen Component
Let's call the component now. We'll need to import it first:

```js
import Codepen from './Codepen';
```

We also want to add some information to our data 

```jsx
export const Projects = [
	{ title: 'Beast Creature', author: 'Adam Smith', user: 'Adamws33', hash: 'KZQxwJ', date: '01/15/2018' },
	{ title: 'Another Beast', author: 'Allison Summers', user: 'alsummers', hash: 'vpjXOX', date: '01/15/2018' },
	{ title: 'Beast Mode', author: 'Andres Martin', user: 'dreMartin', hash: 'eyVLGN', date: '01/15/2018' },
	{ title: 'Beasty', author: 'Andrew Gunst', user: 'agunst99', hash: 'RxMYOM', date: '01/15/2018' },
]

```
Notice in this data that we've taken out the url and pulled it apart. Take for instance one of the URLs tha twas previously there:
```js
https://codepen.io/agunst99/pen/RxMYOM
```

This address leads to the fourth object in our collection by Andrew Gunst. The value of the user prop is the same value of the username that is found in the URL, `agunst`.

Notice that the `RxMYOM` hash is also part of the URL, appended to the end. 

This is exactly what our `Codepen.js` component needs to grab in order to render the component to the DOM.

### Calling the Codepen component
All you need to do now is add the `Codepen` component to the `works` array and pass down the user and hash props. You can also set your preferred width and height as props in the component. All in one line!

```js
	render() {
		const work = this.state.projects.map((project, i) => {
			console.log(i); //To show the difference between the divs below
			return (
				<div key={i}>
					<Title title={project.title} />
					<Author author={project.author} />
					<Footer date={project.date} />
	+				<Codepen height="350" width="700" user={project.user} hash={project.hash} />
					<hr />
				</div>
			);
		})
		return (
```

### Clean up

If you like, you can also remove the CodepenUrl component, since we're going to use the username and Codepen hash to pull in the projects. That's your preference.

### Thanks
We hoped you enjoyed learning about props. They can be tough to grasp and take time, but they are a lot of fun to play with once you have a strong grasp on them.  Let's move on to Lifecycle Methods now.