#Concept List App Component

In this part, we're going to layout our parent component and get things setup moving forward. 

The first thing we're going to add to your `ReactConceptsApp` is going to be state stuff to incorporate the concepts that we added as our data in the last part. In order to be able to use that list of concepts in this file, we need to import them first. While you're at it, we're also going to import a package called `lodash`. Lodash has a bunch of useful functionality that is commonly used/needed and doesn't exist as eloquently in vanilla JS. 

Go ahead and add the following imports to the top of your file.

```js
import _ from 'lodash';
import { concepts } from './concepts';
```

Now that we have our concepts we can setup our state for this application. As usual we can do this in our `constructor()`. Go ahead and add the following to your `ReactConceptsApp`. 

```js
constructor() {
    super(); 
    this.state = { concepts: concepts };
}
```

Let's also go ahead and put in our `render()` method. We need a way to display our concepts from the state. Let's start by just displaying them under general concepts. 

```js
    render() {
        return (
            <div className="main">
                <div className="mainDiv">
                    <h1>Concept List App</h1>
                    <p>Use the list below to toggle concepts that you do or do not understand. Note that this will update when you refresh the page.</p>
                    <h2>General Concepts</h2>
                    {this.state.concepts}
                </div>
            </div>
        );
    }
```

When we try to do this, we get an error that says that "Objects are not valid as a React child (found: object with keys {text, done}). If you meant to render a collection of children, use an array instead."

So, obviously we need some logic to display these in the way we want to. Instead of trying to put all the logic in one component, we can create a new component to handle displaying all of the concepts. Since we're passing it a whole bunch of concepts, we want to create a List component first. 

Go ahead and create a new file called `ConceptList.js` in our concept-list-app folder. Since we're passing this component props, and don't need it to access any methods relating to state or anything, so we can make this a functional component. 

List components in general is a pretty common pattern in react, this is where you do any calculations on the entire list, and then render each individual part of the list through a child component, usually through a map or a loop. 

We're going to follow that pattern here, let's start by getting our component set up. In this component we'll need lodash for some easy calculations. We're also going to need a component we haven't yet made. 

```js
import React from 'react';
import _ from 'lodash';
import Concept from './Concept';

const ConceptList = ({concepts, toggle}) => {


}
export default ConceptList;
```

After we get it set up we're going to need to take our concepts, and format that in a way where they can be passed to a child component to render individually. If we use lodash, we can sort them by whether or not the task is done, so that the list is more useful to the user. We also want to create individual components for each concept, we can do this easily using map! Go ahead and write the following in your ConceptList component. 

Important to note, in React you need unique keys when children, so here we need unique keys. If we just pass in `concept`, react will throw this error `Encountered two children with the same key, [object Object]. Keys should be unique so that components maintain their identity across updates. Non-unique keys may cause children to be duplicated and/or omitted — the behavior is unsupported and could change in a future version.`

```js
    let conceptsSorted = _.sortBy(concepts, 'done');
    let items = conceptsSorted.map( (concept) => 
    <Concept concept={concept} key={concept.text} toggle={toggle}/>
    );
```

Now that we have `items`, with a bunch of `Concept` components ready, we just need to return them, and that's the last step of this list component. Go ahead and make sure your whole component looks like the code below!

```js
import React from 'react';
import _ from 'lodash';
import Concept from './Concept';

const ConceptList = ({concepts, toggle}) => {
    let conceptsSorted = _.sortBy(concepts, 'done');
    let items = conceptsSorted.map( (concept) => 
    <Concept concept={concept} key={concept.text} toggle={toggle}/>
    );
    
    return (
        <ul>
            {items}
        </ul>
    );
}
export default ConceptList;
```
Now, we need to create our `Concept` child component. This component just needs to render every concept, and that's about it. Go ahead and create a new file called `Concept.js` in our concept-list-app folder. Since we don't need to access the state in this component and we're only using it for rendering, we can make this a functional component.

We need this child component to run a function we pass it in props, and to display the concepts for us. It really doesn't need a whole lot. So we can start with framing our component. We know we're going to pass it a concept, and a method to change whether or not the list item is clicked, let's call this `toggle`. Go ahead and start setting up your Concept component like below.

```js
import React from 'react';

const Concept = ({concept, toggle}) => {
    
}

export default Concept;

```

Next we need some method for our list items to call when they're clicked to call the toggle method that we're passing as props. We need this to work onClick, and for it to run the toggle method, and that's it. Go ahead and put this method in your Concept component. The console log is there so we can eventually see what we are running.


```js
const done = (event) => {
        event.preventDefault();
        toggle(concept);
        console.log("Props:", concept, toggle);
    }

```

Lastly, we just need to render our concept, if the concept is done, we want to show it struck through, and if it isn't we don't. Then we need a thing that users can click that will toggle our `done` method. Go ahead and type out the rest of the component below.

```js
    return (
        <li>
            {concept.done ? (<del>{concept.text}</del>) : (concept.text)} <a href="" onClick={done}>✓</a>
        </li>
    );
```

Our whole `Concept` component should look like this: 
```js
import React from 'react';

const Concept = ({concept, toggle}) => {
    const done = (event) => {
        event.preventDefault();
        toggle(concept);
        console.log("Props:", concept, toggle);
    }
    console.log('concept:', concept);
    return (
        <li>
            {concept.done ? `<del>${concept.text}</del>` : {concept.text}} <a href="" onClick={done}>✓</a>
        </li>
    );
}

export default Concept;
```

Now that we've got our Concept List and Concept set up, we're ready to go back to our parent component in the next step to add in all of the logic! 

[Finish Up Concept List App Parent](2.3-concept.md)